Hypothesis:
In the past, investors have been using gold commodities as a safe haven. When investors expect a market downturn, they would sell their shares in stock market to buy gold, causing market
indices to fall and gold price rise, creating a negative correlation to stock market indices. Therefore, gold price could be used as indicator of stock market direction.
The invention of paper gold and founding of commodities futures allowed investors to speculate on several types of commodites including gold. As a result, gold price loses some of it's property to 
suggest market direction as it is driven by investor's speculation.

Our group objective is to explore the accuracy of gold prices as a market indicator in comparison to other possible indicators such as crude oil prices, silver prices, us dollar index, 
prime interest rate, housing prices, and GDP. Further, we will experiment on combining these indicators with various wieght to create a new and better indicator for stock market direction.




Park's Summary
From 1985 to early 2000, gold was used to hedge against market downturn. 
When investers were expecting a bear market, they sell shares in stock market and buy gold, causing decline in stock market indices and rise in gold prices. 
Hence, gold price moved in the opposite direction of S&P500 index. This is shown as negative (inverse) correlation until early 2000. 
The correlation started to change to positive due to creation of paper gold and commodities market in 1970's. 
However, it took some time for the paper gold and commdities futures market to be popularized and accessible to retail investors; therefore, the transition was not apparent until mid 2000's. 
The commodities market allowed traders and investors to speculate on future commodities prices. As a result, the gold price correlation began to shift to possitive territory. 
Since 2007, we noticed that Crude Oil has become more collerated to S&P500.

Cryptocurrencies have weak correlation to S&P500.

In the second part of the project, I explored combining commodities indices with different weight to create a new indicator which could suggest directions of S&P500.
The commodity with highest correlation to S&P500 is crude oil (0.14). The second highest correlation is silver (0.1).
I experimented with various combinations and found that an equal weight between crude oil and silver will provide highest correlation (0.16).
When graphed the cumulative return, I noticed that the crude oil and silver combination moves in the same direction as S&P500 in the last 5 years. This is beause upto 2015, 
US and Saudi Arabia have been manipulating oil prices in oil price war. Further, gold and silver have been used as hedging commodities.
As seen in correlation plots, oil and silver have slightly higher correlation to S&P500 in the past 5 years.

When looking at beta graphs, I noticed that crude oil and silver have lower beta than other commodities indicating lower volatility to S&P500.